okay let's go to Doha now where the qari
Prime Minister and US Secretary of State
are speaking let's listen in Anthony
blink the US Secretary of
State I welcome you here in
Doha we meet today within critical
circumstances with the escalation in the
occupied
Israeli Palestinian territories and in
Israel we had conversation in this
regard and we discussed the political
humanitarian
complications of this situation we have
reiterated K situation regarding hitting
and targeting the civilians women and
children and the collective punishment
that is not acceptable under any
circumstances and these condemnation
must be go must go to anyone who is
involved in these matters we need to
work hard in order to reach a sort of a
c fire in order to stop the Bloodshed
and to avoid a circle of violence that
the people of the region will pay the
price High the priorities of Q within
the Diplomatic approach is to seek a
seized fire protect the civilians
release the captives and to work hard in
order not to spread violence in the
region because this will have bad
consequences we also exchange our
viewpoints regarding humanitarian
corridors to keep the uh assistances and
Aid reaching the Palestinians
particularly within the deterioration of
the situation in Gaza Strip it is a
disaster what we can see in in Gaza
Strip and shortage of basic needs no
electricity because of the bombardment
and we all understand that the situation
is very tough and we all have to exert
all possible
efforts with our alliance and partners
particularly the United States of
America in order to calm the situation
and to not to uh uh increase the more
casualties within civilians
the only way to reach a peaceful
solution is to open all contact Channels
with all partners and concerned Partners
through cooperation we appreciate the
Regional International efforts being
made to deescalate the situation Q
deeply believes that mediation dialogue
are very important and this is part of
our foreign policy and K has made a lot
of successes through dialogue with other
parties and qat is now having uh a great
position as a partner in achieving and
bringing peace qat is committed to be a
partner in the peace process in making
peace and we need not
anything that will hit the good
reputation of qat through other parties
we confirm
that the lack of a last and fair
solution will have bad consequences and
the International Community must press
towards the fair solution of the
Palestinian cause within the Arab
initiative that insisted on a
Palestinian State on the borders of 1967
with East Jerusalem as the capital of
the state and the Palestinian must get
their legitimate right we look forward
to working more and more with our
partners with the Us and other partners
in order to discal the situation in the
Palestinian territories and in Israel
for the peace and Security in the region
and peace be upon
you well good evening um let me start by
expressing my gratitude to the Amir and
to the Prime Minister my friend Muhammad
for uh as always very productive
discussions uh cutter has been a very
close partner to the United States on
broad range of issues that are crucial
to both of our countries and to this
region from working together on
evacuating Americans Afghans and others
from Afghanistan to cooperating very
closely uh in responding to humanitarian
emergencies like the devastating
earthquakes in Tura and in Syria um
we're meeting today at what is a
difficult but also consequential time
for the region in the wake of hamas's
appalling attack killed more than 1300
Israelis at least 27 American citizens
and people from more than 30
countries United States and cter share
the goal of preventing this conflict
from
spreading uh we discussed in detail our
efforts to prevent any active state or
non-state we're creating a new front uh
in this
conflict we're also working intensively
together to secure the release of
hostages including American citizens
being held by Hamas and Gaza I'm
grateful for the urgency that cter is
bringing to this effort I had an
opportunity to meet yesterday with the
families of some of those being held
hostage by
Havas their anguish is
profound they're desperate to bring
their loved ones home and we are working
urgently on that
effort we're doing that with cutter and
we're doing that with allies and
partners across the
region as Israel continues to respond to
hamas's devastating attacks the United
States will ensure that it has what it
needs to defend its people Secretary of
Defense Austin was in Israel today doing
just that working closely with the
Israelis to make sure that we're
providing them what they need and we'll
be able to do that on an ongoing basis
at the same time we're in constant
communication with Israeli officials and
with multilateral International
organizations humanitarian organizations
including the United Nations agencies
including the icrc to get Aid to
civilians in Gaza as I said yesterday in
Tel Aviv Israel has the right indeed it
has the obligation to defend its people
and to try to ensure that Hamas can
never repeat what it's
done we continue to discuss with Israel
the importance of taking every possible
precaution to avoid harming civilian we
recognize that many Palestinian families
in Gaza are suffering through no fault
of their own and the Palestinian
civilians have lost their
lives we mourn the loss of every
innocent life Israeli Palestinian Jew
Christian Muslim as well as civilians of
every faith and every nationality who've
been
killed let's not lose sight of why this
is
happening Israel is conducting
operations in Gaza because
AAS carried out terrorist attacks that
killed in the most horrific ways 1300 of
its
people a m terrorist slaughtered raped
mutilated tortured burned innocent
civilians from babies to the
elderly men women boys and
girls now efforts to get humanitarian
Aid into Gaza are complicated ated by
the fact
thatas continues to use innocent
civilians as human Shields and is
reportedly blocking roads to prevent
Palestinians from moving to Southern
Gaza out of Harm's
Way we know the humanitarian situation
is urgent we're actively engaged with
Partners including cutter to get Aid to
those who need
it your Excellency thank you again for
today's very very good discussions and
for all the work that our countries have
done together thank
you a question from the
journalist first
question to the K prime
minister media reports
talk about an
agreement that has been agreed to
freeze around six
billion dollars run here in Qatar a
question to Mr
blink have you heard you and the
American
Administration that the numbers of
casualties in Gaza are more than
1,500 third of these casualties and
victims are children according to
reports and according to the UNICEF my
question is clear to you what will the
United States do being uh a democracy
advocate in the world what will you do
in order not to kill another child in
Gaza regarding the media reports about
freezing Iranian funds in qat the state
of qat is always committed
to any
agreement and uh every
steps must be done through consultations
with other partners the fund the money
here in not be used unless all the
conditions of the agreement are
fulfilled and we should focus on our
prior Focus to redu T the
priorities
ofal and put an end to the current war
waged against our brothers in Gaza and
reach not to do anything that will
escalate the situation in the
region thank you for the
question few things as I said uh just a
moment
ago I'll repeat
it Israel has both the right and even
the
obligation to defend his people
and to do everything it can to ensure
that what happened last Saturday never
happens
again uh same time the way Israel does
this matters uh the way any democracy
deal with such a situation matters and
to that end we discussed with the
Israelis urge the Israelis to use every
possible precaution to avoid armed
civilians um it's also important to
remember the fundamental issue that
makes this so complicated as I said
again a moment ago Hamas uses civilians
as human Shields it puts them in places
where they will be in danger puts them
in places where they're used in effect
to try to protect uh Hamas officials or
their equipment or
infrastructure civilians of course
should not be the target of military
operations they are not the target of
Israeli operations they are very
deliberately the target of hamasa
action um I mentioned as well that we're
very actively engaged with un relief
agencies with the icrc with others to
address the acute humanitarian needs of
people in Gaza to protect them from harm
uh and uh make sure that they have uh
the ability uh to get what they need uh
we need to ensure for example that there
are safe areas in Gaza uh for civilians
we're working through the details on
that
uh and uh more to be said in the days
ahead but that's a priority for us uh
we're discussing this with the Israeli
government we're discussing it with
others in the
region the question is related to the
core of the contacts recent contacts
since the crisis in Gaza we have seen
that qat is doing well in this regard
contacted so many countries Iran the
United States Jordan France and other
countries what is the core of the recent
contacts and what are these context
based
on since the uh
crisis His Highness the Amir of qat made
a lot of
contacts and I also had contacts with
some of my
counterparts we need
to listen the escalation and we need to
stop this war and we need to find the
humanitarian
corridors for the aid and assistances to
reach uh Gaza and uh to see the uh cause
of the civilian captives we work with
our partners and we hope they will go
back to their families the contact and
consultations of Qatar are based on
finding solution to this crisis and not
to escalate the crisis and not to spread
the conflicts and not to find other
fronts being involved the
priorities are to stop the war and to
deliver the assistances and Aid to the
needy people and the captives to be
returned to their
families question from
Reuters um she Muhammad given the
condemnation from the world on Hamas
attack is Qatar considering shutting
down Hamas Bureau are you prepared to
ask the leadership to leave if your
Western allies demand you to do so and
Mr secretary have you asked Qatar to
shut down the Hamas office and if I may
Mr secretary yesterday and just now you
said Israel has a right to defend itself
but you added that how it does that
mattered and you talked about a standard
that democracies should strive for even
when it's difficult to do so today
Israel ordered residents of Gaza City to
leave and move South something un
Palestinian Envoy just called the crime
against humanity um we the translation
wasn't great so the gentleman before me
might have asked something similar but
let me push you a little bit more on
this how does that square how does that
order square with that standard you
mentioned and also international law
does the United States support this
relocation and since you had a
conversation with prime minister
Netanyahu did you give your blessing for
this move thank
[Applause]
you it's
uh thank you please well uh regarding
your question about Hamas political
office uh in do right now uh actually
this office since it's started it's
being used as a way of communicating
and communicating and bringing peace and
calm to the region uh uh not to
instigate anymore and this is the
purpose of of that office as long as we
are keeping the communication open right
now and focusing on putting an end for
this conflict and this is useful that's
that will remain our main focus uh these
days uh uh actually uh now our key uh
our key Focus for us in the state of qar
and I believe the United States sharing
with us this objective is how to put an
end for this conflict how to deescalate
how to create a humanitarian Corridor
and how uh get the hostes back
safe Amara first U the first part of
your question uh let me start by saying
and I mentioned this before but I want
to repeat it
um I really thank cutter for the work
that they're doing to try to help secure
the release of uh poses um this is
something that we deeply appreciate I
know that other countries do as well and
it's something that we're actively
pursuing um I've also been making a
clear in all of my conversations uh
throughout this trip that there can be
no more business as usual with a
moss murdering
babies burning families to death taking
little children as
hostages these are unconscionable acts
of
brutality every country in our judgment
needs to condemn these actions needs to
hold them accountable and we will
continue to make that
clear
when it comes to providing for civilians
in uh in Gaza both um ensuring that they
can be out of Harm's Way and that they
can have access to the uh support that
they need the humanitarian assistance
the food the medicine the water our
Focus now is on helping to create safe
zones and we're doing that with the uh
leading international organizations
we're doing that uh engaged with Israel
and we're working with other countries
to the to that end so that's where our
focus is we think this is the best way
to make sure that um civilians who are
caught in a crossfire of Hamas is making
can be um safe and receive the
assistance they
need
thank
Bloomberg Mr secretary I know the
situation in Israel is highly charged
and very fluid but are you worried about
the medium and long long-term
consequences of what's unfolding in Gaza
are you worried that Israel may be
simply retaliating in a fury because of
the horrendous nature of these attacks
and might not have a medium or long-term
plan and secondly I'm wondering how
worried are you about a second front in
this war Iran and Hezbollah have already
made threats of opening this new front
if attacks on civilians and the or an
Israeli blockade of Gaza continues um
what would the US response be if
Hezbollah ramps up its own attacks for
instance in response to a ground
Invasion uh and shik Muhammad the US and
Israel are both struggling with this
tragic and fluid hostage situation that
that the secretary was talking about and
have looked for cutter to help uh
navigate it can you tell us about your
engagements with Hamas and are you
optimistic about getting these people
back alive given reports that some of
them may have already died in Israeli
strikes on Gaza and secondly there have
been rising criticism and protests
across the Arab world uh as isra as as
Israel's retaliation continues what's
your view of how Israel is conducting
its military response and are you
worried about the potential are you also
worried about the potential for medium
and long-term consequences of what's
Happening thank you um Ian thank you
very
much first part of the
question uh no country no country can
tolerate having terrorist group come in
Slaughter its
people in the most unconscionable
ways and live like
that what Israel is doing is not
retaliation what Israel is doing is
defending the lives of its people and as
I said trying to make sure that this
cannot happen
again and I think any country faced with
what Israel has uh has suffered uh would
likely do the same thing
imagine if this had happened in the
United
States so that's what is happening of
course you're uh it's important to think
about uh as one might put it uh the day
after and where this goes and I believe
that is very much a part of uh Israel's
thinking as well as our own and the
thinking of many other countries in the
region
because one thing is for sure uh we
can't go back back to the status quo
that allowed this to happen in the first
place so that has to be part of the the
thinking and and and it is but the
immediate Focus again is on making sure
that uh Israelis are protected defended
and that again this um can't be allowed
to be
repeated with regard to uh a second
front you put it yes this is something
that's that we're very focused on we
have been from day one we want to make
sure that um no other country or entity
TR to take advantage of the situation
president's been very very clear about
that um he uh said very
starkly that any state or non-state
actor considering that should not don't
do it and he's backed that up in a
number of ways including as I've
mentioned the other day and is is known
deploying our largest aircraft carrier
battle group uh to the Eastern
Mediterranean um so that's clearly
designed to help ensure that uh anyone
contemplating getting engaged uh doesn't
do it uh but beyond that a big part of
my own conversations here throughout
this trip uh including today uh
following up the next couple of days is
working with other countries to make
sure that they're using their own
contacts their own um influence their
own relationship
to make that case that uh no one else
should be um uh taking this moment
choose to create more trouble uh in some
other place I should mention as well
that that earlier today I uh had a very
good conversation with uh president abas
and the Palestinian Authority and among
other things the Palestinian Authority
is um acting effectively to um try to
ensure that there is security and
stability in the way Bank uh something
that is very much appreciated and uh
they are uh working as they've done in
the past with Israel to that effect so
in in each of these areas yes this is a
this is a focus and it's very important
that this not expand to other
places regarding uh your question about
uh the progress on on the host is
actually it's very early to judge uh
with the
intensity of the of the war right now
how how hopeful we are but we we have we
always hopeful in order to get those
hostages back I think that uh uh the
progress will be determined in the next
few days hopefully and we will see if
there will be a positive Prospect for
that but we are doing our best our
partners are doing their best in order
to get them released uh safy on our
views on uh uh the Israeli response uh
in Gaza we see we have seen the amount
of Devastation that's uh Gaza which
almost now half of it been distracted
and the number of people who been killed
uh uh throughout this uh operation is
significant and we believe that human
being are human being everywhere whether
they are in Israel or Palestinians uh
they have the same value and uh uh this
is deeply painful for all of us and we
would like to see uh uh international
law applied here and uh also the same
standards that we apply to uh any War
being applied in in that we are trying
our best in keeping the communication
open in order to ensure that uh uh the
humanitarian suffering doesn't continue
and moving ahead uh with the
humanitarian passages uh uh for for the
aid to be provided to them we cannot uh
deprive uh the people in Gaza from
electricity water and uh medicine and
like all the means uh of Life uh we
believe that the situation is very
dangerous on the future uh Prospect of
this the entire situation is very
worrying for the entire region and we
believe in the absence of any political
Horizon and hope for the Palestinians we
this issue will keep uh Ono
unfortunately so that's why we need to
focus on how the day after will be dealt
with and how we can create a political
Horizon and hope for the Palestinian
people